Story 4 of Peter Rabbit and Other Tales by Beatrix Potter
This is a LibriVox recording, all LibriVox recordings are in the public domain.
For more information or to volunteer, please visit LibriVox.org.
Recording by Jen Broda Peter Rabbit and Other Tales by Beatrix
Potter, The Tale of Benjamin Bunny
Good morning a little rabbit sat on a bank.
He pricked his ears and listened to the trick-trot, trick-trot of a pony.
A gig was coming along the road.
It was driven by Mr. McGregor and beside him sat Mrs. McGregor in her best bonnet.
As soon as they had passed, Little Benjamin Bunny slid down into the road and set off with
a hop skip and a jump to call upon his relations, who lived in the wood at the back of
Mr. McGregor's garden.
The wood was full of rabbit holes, and in the neatest, sandiest hole of all, lived
Benjamin's aunt and his cousins, flopsie, mopsie, cottontail, and Peter.
Old Mrs. Rabbit was a widow.
She earned her living by knitting rabbit wool mittens and muffetes.
I once bought a pair at a bizarre.
She also sold herbs and rosemary tea and rabbit tobacco, which is what we call lavender.
Little Benjamin did not very much want to see his aunt.
He came round the back of the fur tree and nearly tumbled upon the top of his cousin Peter.
Peter was sitting by himself.
He looked poorly and was dressed in a red cotton pocket hankerchief.
Peter said Little Benjamin in a whisper.
Who has got your clothes?
Peter replied, "The scare crawl in Mr. McGregor's garden."
And described how he had been chased about the garden and had dropped his shoes and coat.
Little Benjamin sat down beside his cousin and assured him that Mr. McGregor had gone out
in a gig and Mrs. McGregor also, and certainly for the day because she was wearing her
best bonnet.
Peter said he hoped that it would rain.
At this point old Mrs. Rabbit's voice was heard inside the rabbit hole calling.
Cotton tail, cotton tail, fetch some more chamomile.
Peter said he thought he might feel better if he went for a walk.
They went away hand in hand and got upon the flat top of the wall at the bottom of the
wood.
From here they looked down into Mr. McGregor's garden.
Peter's coat and shoes were plainly to be seen upon the scarecrow, topped with an old
Tamilchanter of Mr. McGregor's.
Little Benjamin said, "It spoils people's clothes to squeeze under a gate.
The proper way to get in is to climb down a pear tree."
Peter fell down head first, but it was of no consequence as the bed below was newly raked
and quite soft.
It had been sewn with lettuces.
They left a great many odd little footmarks all over the bed, especially a little Benjamin
who was wearing clogs.
Little Benjamin said that the first thing to be done was to get back Peter's clothes
in order that they might be able to use the pocket hankerchief.
They took them off the scarecrow.
There had been rain during the night.
There was water in the shoes and the coat was somewhat shrunk.
Then tried on the Tamilchanter, but it was too big for him.
Then he suggested that they should fill the pocket hankerchief with onions as a little
present for his aunt.
Peter did not seem to be enjoying himself.
He kept hearing noises.
Benjamin, on the contrary, was perfectly at home and ate a lettuce leaf.
He said that he was in the habit of coming to the garden with his father to get lettuces
for their Sunday dinner.
The name of little Benjamin's papa was old Mr. Benjamin bunny.
The lettuces certainly were very fine.
Peter did not eat anything.
He said he should like to go home.
Presently he dropped half the onions.
Little Benjamin said that it was not possible to get back up the pear tree with a load
of vegetables.
He led the way boldly towards the other end of the garden.
They went along a little walk on planks under a sunny, red brick wall.
The mice sat on their doorstep, cracking cherry stones.
They winked at Peter Rabbit and little Benjamin bunny.
Presently, Peter Rabbit let the pocket hankerchief go again.
They got amongst flower pots and frames and tubs.
Peter heard noises worse than ever.
His eyes were as big as lollipops.
He was a stopper to in front of his cousin when he suddenly stopped.
This is what those little rabbits saw around the corner.
Little Benjamin took one look and then, in half a minute less than no time, he hid himself
and Peter and the onions underneath a large basket.
The cat got up and stretched herself and came and sniffed at the basket.
Perhaps she liked the smell of onions.
Anyway, she sat down on top of the basket.
She sat there for five hours.
I cannot draw you a picture of Peter and Benjamin underneath the basket because it was
quite dark and because the smell of onions was fearful, he'd made Peter Rabbit and
little Benjamin cry.
The sun got round behind the wood and it was quite late in the afternoon, but still the
cat sat upon the basket.
At length there was a pitter patter, pitter patter, and some bits of mortar fell from the
wall above.
The cat looked up and saw old Mr. Benjamin bunny, prancing along the top of the wall of the
upper terrace.
He was smoking a pipe of Rabbit tobacco and had a little switch in his hand.
He was looking for his son.
Old Mr. Bunny had no opinion whatever of cats.
He took a tremendous jump off the top of the wall onto the top of the cat and cuffed
it off the basket and kicked it into the greenhouse, scratching off a handful of fur.
The cat was too surprised to scratch back.
When old Mr. Bunny had driven the cat into the greenhouse, he locked the door.
Then he came back to the basket and took out his son Benjamin by the ears and whipped him
with the little switch.
Then he took out his nephew pitter.
Then he took out the hankerchief of onions and marched out of the garden.
When Mr. McGregor returned about half an hour later, he observed several things which
perplexed him.
It looked as though some person had been walking all over the garden in a pair of clogs.
Only the footmarks were too ridiculously little.
Also he could not understand how the cat could have managed to shut herself up inside
the greenhouse, locking the door upon the outside.
When Peter got home, his mother forgave him because she was so glad to see that he had
found his shoes and coat.
Cottontail and Peter folded up the pocket hankerchief and old Mrs. Rabbit strung up the
onions and hung them from the kitchen ceiling with the bunches of herbs and the rabbit
tobacco.
The end of the tail of Benjamin Bunny.